Profile photo for CoinSwitch Kuber
CoinSwitch Kuber
, Making Crypto Investment Easy in India
Answered 11 months ago · Author has 273 answers and 324M answer views
We are not saying we’re the best in the industry or sign-up with us. Rather, we’re saying we can help you choose the best cryptocurrency exchange, based on your requirements.

Your criteria to select the best exchange should be based on the following factors:

Exchange interface: Attractive user interface is the biggest factor that draws attention. You should select the exchange that offers a simple view and is beginner-friendly but is loaded with necessary tools and indicators to place trade orders effectively.

Buy Cryptocurrencies with India’s Fastest Growing App today!

Coin Availability: Almost all cryptocurrency exchanges offer to trade in leading cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, XRP, etc. However, if you intend to invest in altcoins or lesser-known coins, check the available cryptocurrencies on the exchange’s website. And, also check whether the exchange has adequate liquidity to fill orders instantly.
Fiat deposit and withdrawal: It is the most important factor to look at an exchange. The exchange should support fiat deposit and allow instant withdrawal to the bank account
Trading Fees: High trading fees can eat away your profits or increase the percentage of loss. If you are a long term investor and trade once a while, the trading fees will not pinch you harder compared to a high-frequency trader.

Therefore, choose an exchange that offers a low and competitive trading fee, without compromising on the quality of the trading platform.
Security: The next deciding factor should be exchange security. Given the majority of exchanges operate in a centralized structure, the platform should have enough safety protocols to protect users’ funds.

The exchange should have the following minimum safety protocols:
Air-gapped cold wallet storage of over 90% of users’ fund
Multisig authorizations for withdrawals
Two-factor authentication for login
SSL security certificate for website
CoinSwitch: Bitcoin Crypto App - Apps on Google Play
India’s Simplest Bitcoin Trading App & BTC Wallet for easy Crypto Investment
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.coinswitch.kuber&referrer=utm_source%3Dquora_question%26utm_medium%3Dquora_question
Reputation: In Indian cryptocurrency market is very new and is in a nascent stage compared to the cryptocurrency market in developed countries.

Therefore, select an exchange that has an impeccable record of safety and follows the best operating procedures. One way of checking this is through the number of users registered with the exchange and the ease at which they can place orders and access the portfolio.
Also, you can check the industry partners and investors in the cryptocurrency exchange.

Final Words

Your first cryptocurrency investment can be a daunting task and full of apprehensions. Therefore, selecting the right exchange platform can be very helpful in reducing the fear and apprehensions and help you to make your first investment in cryptos as smooth as placing an online order for food.
